[[dedicated-network-security]]
= Network Security
{product-author}
{product-version}
:data-uri:
:icons:
:experimental:
:toc: macro
:toc-title:
:prewrap!:

toc::[]


[[network-segregation]]
== Network Segregation

{product-title} uses a software-defined networking (SDN) approach to provide a
unified cluster network that enables communication between pods across the
cluster. This pod network is established and maintained by the OpenShift SDN,
which configures an overlay network using Open vSwitch (OVS).

By default, {product-title} uses the *ovs-networkpolicy* plug-in, which allows
project administrators to configure their own isolation policies using
NetworkPolicy objects. These policies can be fully managed by project owners and
`dedicated-admin` users to add network-level isolation for the projects.

Additionally, some {product-title} clusters also support the *ovs-multitenant*
plug-in, which provides project-level isolation for pods and services. Each
project receives a unique Virtual Network ID (VNID) that identifies traffic from
pods assigned to the project. By default, pods from different projects cannot
send packets to or receive packets from pods and services of a different
project. However, the cluster administrator can join projects and later isolate
them using admin commands. For more information on pod network management, see
xref:../../admin_guide/managing_networking.adoc#admin-guide-manage-networking[Managing
Networking].

[[network-segregation-security-groups]]
=== Security Groups

Security groups are provided by the cloud provider. They provide security at the
protocol and port access level. Each security group works similar to a firewall
and has a set of rules that filter traffic coming into and out of a node.

{product-title} has separate security groups configured for the following
components:

* master nodes
* infrastructure nodes
* compute Nodes
* etcd
* router ELB
* External master ELB
* Internal master ELB

[[encryption-for-data-at-rest]]
== Encryption for Data at Rest

All new persistent volumes (PVs) are encrypted at rest. PVs are backed by block
storage, which is
link:https://v1-13.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#access-modes[Read-Write-Once]
and will be dynamically provisioned and recycled based on application requests.

[[encryption-for-data-in-transit]]
== Encryption for Data in Transit

All communication channels with the REST API, as well as between master
components such as etcd and the API server, are secured with TLS. TLS provides
strong encryption, data integrity, and authentication of servers with X.509
server certificates and public key infrastructure. By default, a new internal
PKI is created for each deployment of {product-title}. The internal PKI uses
2048 bit RSA keys and SHA-256 signatures.

The {product-title} server and `oc` client provides TLS 1.2 or newer by default.
Both server and client prefer modern cipher suites with authenticated encryption
algorithms and perfect forward secrecy. Cipher suites with deprecated and
insecure algorithms such as RC4, 3DES, and MD5 are disabled. Some internal
clients (for example, LDAP authentication) have less restricted settings with
TLS 1.0 to 1.2 and more cipher suites enabled.

[[dedicated-network-end-point-security]]
== Network End-point Security

{product-title} includes security certificates needed for both internal and
external services on the cluster. For external routes, there are two separate
wildcard certificates that are provided and installed on each cluster. For
clusters that use an additional router shard and ELB, there will be a third
wildcard certificate.

For cluster services such as the API and web console, the wildcard certificate
is:

----
*.[cluster-name].openshift.com
----

For application routes, the wildcard certificate is:

----
*.[shard-id].[cluster-name].openshiftapps.com
----

Custom domains and subdomains are not available for the platform service routes
or the default application routes. However, you can upload your own certificates
for custom application routes through the web console or API.
