////
Module included in the following assemblies:

install_config/configuring_azure.adoc
////

[id='configuring-azure-objects_{context}']
= Configuring Microsoft Azure objects

Integrating {product-title} with Microsoft Azure requires the following
components or services to create a highly-available and full-featured
environment.

[IMPORTANT]
====
To ensure that the appropriate amount of instances can be launched, request an
increase in CPU quota from Microsoft before creating instances.
====

A resource group::

Resource groups contain all Microsoft Azure components for a deployment,
including networking, load balancers, virtual machines, and DNS. Quotas and
permissions can be applied to resources groups to control and manage resources
deployed on Microsoft Azure. Resource groups are created and defined per
geographic region. All resources created for an {product-title} environment
should be within the same geographic region and within the same resource group.

See link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/resource-group-overview[Azure Resource Manager overview] for more information.

Azure Virtual Networks::

Azure Virtual Networks are used to isolate Azure cloud networks from one
another. Instances and load balancers use the virtual network to allow
communication with each other and to and from the Internet. The virtual network
allows for the creation of one or many subnets to be used by components within a
resource group. You can also connect virtual networks to various VPN services,
allowing communication with on-premise services.

See link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-overview[What is Azure Virtual Network?] for more information.

Azure DNS::

Azure offers a managed DNS service that provides internal and
Internet-accessible host name and load balancer resolution. The reference
environment uses a DNS zone to host three DNS A records to allow for mapping of
public IPs to {product-title} resources and a bastion.

See link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/dns/dns-overview[What is Azure DNS?] for more information.

Load balancing::

Azure load balancers allow network connectivity for scaling and high
availability of services running on virtual machines within the Azure
environment.

See link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/load-balancer/load-balancer-overview[What is Azure Load Balancer?]

Storage Account::

Storage Accounts allow for resources, such as virtual machines, to access the
different type of storage components offered by Microsoft Azure. During
installation, the storage account defines the location of the object-based
`blob` storage used for the {product-title} registry.

See link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-introduction[Introduction to Azure Storage] for more information, or the xref:../install_config/configuring_azure.adoc#configuring-azure-registry_configuring-for-azure[Configuring the {product-title} registry for Microsoft Azure section] for steps to create the storage account for the registry.

Service Principal::

Azure offers the ability to create service accounts, which access, manage, or
create components within Azure. The service account grants API access to
specific services. For example, a service principal allows Kubernetes or
{product-title} instances to request persistent storage and load balancers.
Service principals allow for granular access to be given to instances or users
for specific functions.

See link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/app-objects-and-service-principals[Application and service principal objects in Azure Active Directory] for more information.

Availability Sets::

Availability sets ensure that the deployed VMs are distributed across multiple
isolated hardware nodes in a cluster. The distribution helps to ensure that when
maintenance on the cloud provider hardware occurs, instances will not all run on one specific node. 

You should segment instances to different availability sets based on their role.
For example, one availability set containing three master hosts, one
availability set containing infrastructure hosts, and one availability set
containing application hosts. This allows for segmentation and the ability to
use external load balancers within {product-title}.

See link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/manage-availability[Manage the availability of Linux virtual machines] for more information.

Network Security Groups::

Network Security Groups (NSGs) provide a list of rules to either allow or deny
traffic to resources deployed within an Azure Virtual Network. NSGs use numeric
priority values and rules to define what items are allowed to communicate with
each other. You can place restrictions on where communication is allowed to
occur, such as within only the virtual network, from load balancers, or from
everywhere.

Priority values allow for administrators to grant granular values on the order
in which port communication is allowed or not allowed to occur.

See link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-nsg[Plan virtual networks] for more information.

Instances sizes::

A successful {product-title} environment requires some minimum hardware
requirements.

See the xref:../install/prerequisites.adoc#hardware[Minimum Hadware Requirements
section in the {product-title} documentation] or
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cloud-services/cloud-services-sizes-specs[Sizes
for Cloud Services] for more information.
